A close ancestor to this project is Lindsey Kuper et al (Intel Labs)'s Parallel Accelerator, from the Julia programming language. An innocuous for-loop Julia program is implicitly transformed into performant vectorized computations, all it takes is that the user appends an `@acc` macro to a function to mark it for optimization.

Another close ancestor is Jane Street's Async Parallel, from the OCaml programming language. An innocuous monadic OCaml program is split into jobs to be run in multiple machines. It is a kind of process-based parallelism, and was made in a time when OCaml did not have language-level thread-based parallelism yet (a.k.a. GIL-locked like Python). Asynchronous parallelism is interesting because, in theory, async syntax and structured concurrency as a whole are always an ideal pattern for writing concurrent programs, and it should be trivial to parallelize async programs, yet the programming community seems to draw an arbitrary division between "async" and "parallel". You'd usually hear something like "async is for IO-bound computations and multhreading is for CPU-bound computations", when really, async is just a pattern / abstraction, and the division is much blurier than that.

Other than that. The status quo is that most distributed tasks are written in the map-reduce pattern, as adopted by systems like Apache Spark. This is industry-standard for the field of Big Data. However this requires a paradigm shift into pipeline-based programming, which has its own pros and cons. We believe that such paradigm shift should not be necessary for writing distributable programs. Indeed, many programmers are used to the async/await paradigm for writing structured concurrent programs.

The OCaml language was chosen due to its capability for high-abstraction programming through module-based type programming with abstract types, so that programming between distinct runtimes is seamless (such system is also known as *implicitly heterogeneous system*). All the while, OCaml's evalutation semantics is strict, and it has a history with low-level interop with C code, enabling further optimizations.
